---
layout: blog
title: 'The Move'
excerpt: 
date: 2016-01-15
---
The good news is that my family successfully moved from Eugene, OR to South Carolina. Everyone is in one piece and ultimately it worked out. Now that we are settled it almost doesn't seem reasonable to write down my experience, however at some point it will be useful to read my own thoughts on the experience.  
### The Plan
Channing and our two children were to leave Wednesday, 2 December 2015 with Channing's mother for Portland, OR to fly to Charlotte, NC. Meanwhile, my father and I would leave that same morning in the moving truck and drive down through California and across Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and finally arriving in South Carolina. My grandmother passed away in 2012 and her empty house is on the same property that my parents live on in Lexington, SC. We could stay there rent-free for a few months to save up money to buy our own house.  
  
### Leaving Eugene
By far the most emotionally draining and difficult part of the decision to move and the move itself was saying goodbye to the people, places, and the dream of Eugene. The plan was that non-essential things would be packed up and in the garage. The moving truck would be picked up on Monday and we would spend Monday and Tuesday packing and we would leave Wednesday. There is no rational reason for why I failed to accomplish almost any moving or packing until the weekend prior to the move. The important information to know is that Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday were a mad scramble to get all of our belongings in to a truck. Additionally, the truck was too small and most furniture had to be given away or thrown out to make room. My father and I had intended to leave on Wednesday morning after putting beds and whatever wasn't able to be packed for the final night. Instead, we left late in the afternoon.  
  
### Cross-Country Travel
Fortunately, everything went smoothly with Channing and the kids getting to the airport and flying to NC. The moving truck had a trailer for my car to be towed. The jack on the trailer to lift it up to the truck broke and had to be removed and stored in the moving truck to prevent it from dragging. Ultimately, that did not cause a problem, but it did cause a several hour delay in getting started after already being delayed by packing the truck. My mental state was poor by the time we left. As best as I can tell I went in to some sort of anxiety attack sometime around Sunday and it did not stop until after we arrived on the following Saturday. I felt physically ill and simply unable to properly make decisions. My father wound up driving the entire 3,100 miles partially due to his own bravado and partially due to my clearly unstable state. Most of the driving itself was uneventful. Gas stations, bad food, meaningless chit-chat. What you would expect. Near the California/Arizona border we stopped at a gas station and my father went looking for a Route 66 souvenir. The selection was poor and so we went to another place nearby. While I waited in the truck one of the employees came up to me and waved me out of the car. I had expected him to ask me to move the truck as we were parked oddly in the front, but instead he pointed out that one of the tires on the trailer was nearly bald and had bulges. Even though it would have been unlikely that one of the four trailer tires failing on the road would have resulted in an accident, it would have been a worse problem than catching it pre-failure. Even though the station we were already at was an authorised repair centre for the truck rental company, they insisted that we drive across the town to another shop to have the tire replaced. Outside of that, nothing eventful happened. We slept at truck stops for a few hours here-and-there. My cat, Karl, rode with us. After about three hours of driving (and hearing her incessantly howl) we pulled off at a rest area and I put her in my car on the trailer with the litter box and some food to try and calm her down. I went in to the gas station to get a drink and noticed that she was sleeping calmly in the car until she saw me; at which point she resumed her stressful meowing. We drove a while more with her in the cab of the truck and a while later we did another break for her to use the litter box and eat. Since the only time she seemed calm was when I could not see her, I decided to let her stay in the car while we drove. I kept a close eye on her for the whole trip and she spent almost the whole trip sleeping and eating in the car. The moment she saw me at any point she would again howl. My best guess is that the travel was unpleasant, but tolerable-- however when she could see me she needed me to know that she wanted it to stop. She made it fine and a month later I have almost gotten all of the litter out of my car.  

### Arrival & The Lake House
Once I showered, slept, and tried to accept that the move was, for better or worse, over. We examined the house that where my grandmother used to live. Despite a huge amount of effort on the part of my mother and my aunt Donna the house was still dirty and in poor shape. Having a crawling baby in a house brings a level of scrutiny that you simply cannot have otherwise. The floors could be cleaned, but the tiles in the Florida room that were chipped and cracked could not easily be fixed. The splintering wood panelling did not have an easy solution. The lack of insulation which required the use of either a very child unfriendly Franklin stove or electric heat would be too much of an investment to fix properly; and the heater only stayed off for a few minutes before kicking back on since there was no insulation to hold in the heat. The problem that made it simply unworkable, though, was the water. There was a strong metallic smell and taste that didn't go away or even reduce after running the water. After speaking to someone at the Clemson University Extension who specialised in water quality it was clear that we needed to take action. The galvanised supply pipes were at least from the 50s, but likely even older. The galvanised coating is of a known composition, but the pipes can be several different types of metals. Additionally, they might be soldered together with lead solder and the water could corrode into the fittings and introduce the solder into the water. Testing at minimum is required, but re-piping is advised. Not going to happen. So, suddenly we have to find a place to live.
  
### Sister's House & Greenville
My sister lives in Taylors, SC which is near Greenville. It is about 1.5 hours away from Lexington. We had considered strongly living in the Greenville area anyway when we had decided to move. We looked in the Lexington area, however nothing was available that seemed anywhere close to acceptable. My sister was kind enough to let us stay with her while we looked for a place. Going from near isolation in our own space to living with four other people in a three bedroom house was a huge change. Additionally, I had to work from a computer in the living room instead of having my own office as is my usual. While I worked Channing and my sister looked at house after house in the area. After we had settled on a clearly sub-par house in Mauldin we found one new listing in Greer that seemed okay. Channing called the agent and set up a showing. On paper it seemed mediocre. Only two bedrooms where we were hoping for at least three; however there was an upstairs bonus room that was perfect for my office and the rest of the house was spacious and the layout was very interesting. It was built in the 60s and has lots of built in cabinets and details. 
